# NYPD Misconduct Complaint Database – 05.11.23
**Update: The NYCLU obtained an updated set of records from the Civilian Complaint Review Board (CCRB) in April 2023. The records include information about misconduct investigations completed by the CCRB as of April 2023.
All files in this repository have been updated as of April 2023 to reflect the new information. To access the old version of the database from before April 2023, please navigate to the “Archive” folder.**
`CCRB Complaint Database Raw 04.28.2023.zip` contains a record of the complaints made by the public to the Civilian Complaint Review Board (CCRB). These complaints span two distinct periods: the time since the CCRB started operating as an independent city agency outside the NYPD in 1994 and the prior period when the CCRB operated within the NYPD. The database includes 302,801 unique complaint records involving 107,187 incidents. Since 2000, 38,272 active or former NYPD officers were named in misconduct investigations. The database does not include pending complaints for which the CCRB has not completed an investigation as of April 2023.
Using the CCRB complaint history data, which the NYCLU obtained through a Freedom of Information Law (FOIL) request, the NYCLU built a search tool to make the information more accessible: [nyclu.org/nypdrecords] (https://www.nyclu.org/en/campaigns/nypd-misconduct-database).  Each row of the database represents a unique complaint made against an NYPD officer, including the officer’s name, race or ethnicity, rank, and command (the NYPD unit where the officer was assigned at the time that the complaint was filed). It is not uncommon for a single police-civilian encounter to result in multiple complaints against the same officer or against multiple officers. Details about the CCRB investigation process can be found on their website. The CCRB also has a tool with up-to-date data on their website but includes less information for each complaint.
`CCRB FileSpecs 04.28.2021.xlsx` is a spreadsheet containing
1.	Information about each variable in the spreadsheet.
2.	Information clarifying some of the abbreviations used in the database
3.	Differences between the raw data file and the version that is accessible through the interactive tool
We may update this file with additional details. For more information, please visit [nyclu.org/nypdrecords] (https://www.nyclu.org/en/campaigns/nypd-misconduct-database).
